looks like we're
live okay so what I'm going to do I was
thinking about this was getting my
coffee is we're going to start from the
beginning again just so that this
doesn't look more uh crazy than it is so
I'm going to do the exact same thing I
did last
time pass Five and I feel like this
repetition is is nice
okay so the hell with that
code one thing I wanted to do is I want
to
do okay so what is it that we're doing
first we basically are making a tree of
strings so we're saying enum exper and
it can take a SIM which has a string on
it and we can have a
list which is a Beck of expert so now we
have a tree and then we need to derive
our what is it derive
clone
uh
e and is there one more
debug okay so now we have an expert that
we can print we can compare equality and
we can put it in hashmaps so that's
great then we D we made some helper
functions so the helper functions were
function Sim s which takes a pointer to
string and returns an
expert and that goes expert Sim s.2
string and that's it then we had a
function list which I'm not going to
implement because it wasn't as useful as
I thought it would be so we're going
we're going to actually make list take
strings this time because seems like the
easiest way so this is going to be S
type and I think we can do pointer to
slice of
stir and then this
goes you do
this okay well then I don't
care V of pointer to
start and then we're going to say um s
do it.
map we'll call this
stirs
there it. map s
sims uh.
collect uh what do we say we say back
underscore and then we
say expert of list that cool so now we
have some helper functions so we should
be able to do stuff like list of
um
f x so
now let FX equal this uh print
line
FX
that and then we should be able to
run cool so now we have an expression
type and with
lists
the next thing that we did was we
introduced the idea that there's special
symbol a special symbol called blank
that matches any expression so we Define
this function called function my match
that takes a an exper of type
expression it takes a pattern type
expression and it returns a
bull um and the what we did is we match
expert
pattern and then let's say blank goes to
to
do and we said if we get a sim an exp
per Sim of e an exp per Sim of P then
what we do is first we
check if p is equal equal to
blank return true we can just say true
else uh um e compare with equality so
now we're saying okay so if you don't
have a blank then you need to check if
you know X on the pattern is actually X
in the expression okay so that's all
good then we said expert Sim
e exper list PS and so now what we're
saying is this is just
false because there's no case where a
function called
like this should really match just X as
a symbol or F or whatever even blank
being called because what we're saying
is that blank is just a special symbol
not uh yeah so why is this not
good oh I think that's just a comma
needed and now we're saying what happens
when we get a
list and a symbol
and I feel like I should put this case
up here
actually and we could just make this an
underscore okay so this is going to be
ease uh oops expert list P or say
sim cool so now this function we're
saying the exact same thing as
here so we could
actually make this
a
blank so we can remove this
arm
um just call this expert is equal equal
to
pattern okay so then this arm is already
captured by this and we can actually
make this all else goes to false so we
can remove this and now we're going to
take this as just list so now we have
the two list case and what we said
was basically if since blank is a single
match so it will match exactly one
expression then um we can make an
assumption about the lengths of the the
lists on on both sides so we can say if
es. Len not equal to ps. Len then false
else we can do for e
p in es.
.zip um
keys if not my my match of
e
p uh return false because if any of the
sub Expressions don't match then the
whole thing doesn't match and then
otherwise we can just return
true and I think we have to clone these
guys but I think isn't there something
like into itter that will give me the
actual
thing
right oh interesting okay so we do have
to
clone clone
clone
where did it get
moved
okay wait what
what interesting okay I don't remember
having to do that
last time but that's
fine okay so now we have a basic
uh pattern matcher that works with
blanks and
it's you know whatever 25 lines of
code um so basically let's just write
some basic test cases should
I
um
I don't know when I was watching the
vods the test case writing was kind of
boring but it is
useful so I'll just copy them over and
make sure that they work so let's look
at cast 4 we're just going to copy the
test cases make sure that everything
works as
expected um is there anything else we
need I think that's
it so close this guy put this in here
and then the only thing that we need is
we need to change this to
list cool so that is great so all the
test cases worked as expected but now
what we're going to do is we're going to
expand the functionality of blank to be
a little bit more
useful
um after these
messages
for
e
yep what we do what we doing what we
doing all
right cool so now what we're going to do
is we're going to switch from thinking
about blank as just a symbol but blank
is a one argument fun is a zero or one
argument
function that
basically um why do these test cases
look so
nasty well whatever we're going
to we're going to change
this to end up looking
like
okay all right so we're g to so instead
of blank being a symbol here we're
actually just going to end up
returning
equality but then here in this
thing what is it that we need to do we
need to
look well let's let's write it let's
write
again and so what is it that we need to
say first we need to say blank goes to
false does everything go
away
let see what's wrong okay well
anyways
e s we're just so what we're just doing
is we're going right back through doing
the whole thing over again but we're
thinking
about in this case our wild card is no
longer
just a
Syle now we have blank is a zero
argument
uh so
expert
list you say
list okay so now we have a blank
so here we have just symbols so we we do
eal p so that's all we
have why is this
not it was it because of
that
I'm so
confused we don't need
this oh yeah
okay syntax syntax
syntax any anyways now we're going to do
exper
Sim
e exper list p ps right because we have
multiple of them and what we're going to
do is basically we're going to
say
um
if p is zero so if the first element of
the VC is equal equal to the SIM
blank then we know that we are at the
case where we have something like f
matching with
blank um then what we want to do just
for right now and I'm going to revert
this soon is we're going to assert that
the
length that ps. Len
is is uhal equal to
one
um then we're going to return
true
else I think it's just
false BEC and the reason why it's
false
is this arm because it's it's trying to
compare a symbol to a
list
so what I'll do right now is just we
will remove when we
start uh introducing
heads
head
in Okay cool so then what's our our last
arm to do expert list
e
expert
okay so what do we need to do here well
we need to I think it's just the exact
same thing
here think that this is all
good and this just need to be my match
too and now we're just going to change
this and see if our test cases pass oh
well they they won't because we need to
make
um right we're going to do this but
we're going to
actually list s uh
list
back cool so now wherever we see
blank we're going to change this to
blank
similarly
um
yeah we need to we might want to helper
function
but okay fine so we'll make
uh I'll just call it list e and this
take e back of
expert the expert and it just calls
expert
so then here instead of this one I could
do
um list e of sim
that list
ve and actually I think I just put blank
in here so that make that easier blank.
clone and so now we're going to compare
faab to list
e so let's try to run it cool what goes
wrong
case
four so what is this case why is this
going wrong well we have the list one
and we're matching that
with the list
blank and the reason why is because we
end up going
to in here iterating over
that
yeah so what we need to do is we need to
check in there whether or not it's a
blank so similarly to here first we want
to check if
p if
P0 well I guess first we need a match we
need a match on P
um
Pi pies I don't
know
um
so we need to catch this before we
recurse
otherwise we do
nothing uh that's not
right let's try
again
oh cuz I have some random thing in
there
wait
what
h I just cloning all over the
place
okay so we're still running into that
problem
St so the first thing we do is we get
to
oh I think we just need to move this
actually out
here
um cool all right yeah so that was just
me being
weird
okay so now we're going to introduce a
new function that's pretty
important it's called
Head
expert and we're going to match
e uh okay so we're going to say um we
have an expert
Sim blank then we're going to return the
expert
Sim of the its own name so this is sort
of like What's Happening Here is um well
I I'll demonstrate
in here but if I do head
of see head of x x is just some unknown
SYM we get the symbol back but if I give
head of X of X then I get X so it's
basically looking at the list structure
but when it gets an atom it sort of
returns the symbol that represents the
name of that atom so here oh and I can
just call my handy
Sim uh
Sim okay then
otherwise we get exper list uh ease
we
return ke zero that's what we
do yeah I see I feel like I'm doing
something
weird I'm just placeing clones all over
the place cuz I don't really care about
this okay so now what we're going to do
is we're going to
um remove this assertion and we're going
to say
if
um equal equal to two
and
um head of or no no no
and PS1 is equal equal to head of
e um I think we want to do this so if
the length is
two
uh yeah let's just write
it I'm okay
so all right so we found a blank now we
want to say if p uh
PS is equal equal to two then we say let
P head equal to PS of one okay then we
want to say does the head in this second
thing so now we're saying this has Sim
at the at the back of
it I'm going to say if P head is equal
equal
to head of e
of
exper
true else
false now otherwise what we want to do
is just true
this to
borrow okay so now what we can do is we
can add another test case in here where
we can say
um
simf uh
list
blank and then what did we say was the
head head of a blank symbol Sim and then
we want this to be
true oh
yeah let's try cool so that worked so
now what we want to do is say if I
called this F or something else this
will get
false nice and now we want the list case
where we want
yeah I keep forgetting these
commas so now I want
uh this side to be F ofx and we want to
say since this is a list its head is f
and so we want to
match only if F and there match so this
should be true but then if I duplicate
this and change this to G we should get
false okay so we found
about on case 10 we need to we need to
print
uh
oh I think it's because we didn't change
in here we need to add this logic
where and copy this
in where does this go this goes to this
one
cool so let's try it
again nice so now we have head matching
which is pretty
cool um
so the next crucial step is to introduce
new p pattern objects new pattern
objects that are the most important I
would say are going to be blank sequence
which
allows it is a pattern object that can
stand for any sequence of one or more
wol from language
expressions okay so this is the case
where you have like
uh
this
a
b c and you want to
match
um let's say oh let's just write it out
list deck of F and then the next thing
will be this special one
called uh well I guess it would be Sim
of blank
sequence this is an ex L correct syntax
but you
know
okay
um let's see well we have two roads that
we could take here first we could try to
do just blank sequence or we could
introduce the idea of named patterns I
think maybe I'll go go with named
patterns
e
okay we want
to
[Music]
um
uh
so what I'm say I'm I'm making a helper
function so that I can get rid of this
duplicated code that happens both here
and
here so first I'm asserting that it's a
list
because
uh if equal to P is that how you do that
that's how you do that
uh needs a list
for then we want to assert that do we
want to assert
anything I guess we could assert that
uh
yeah and this goes to
Bull
and here all we can do all we need to do
is return is blank match of
e of
xer and
P same thing for
here cool so that's useful
how
long is this thing bugging
out 38 minutes that's not
long okay so the next steps I I decided
we're going to do named patterns because
that
makes I think the most
sense all right so named patterns are
basically just a little addition
to uh these blank H things and
effectively it's just adding this first
part to it X so all all this is is
remember our Trusty full form is the
most important function I feel like in
wolm is that now we have this x which
gives it a name say this is basically a
named pattern but it still stores the
the blank object at the in its uh second
argument so we're going to try to
generalize the case where all of
our
blanks can be
named and what I'm going to
do
I
think let's see what do we want to do we
probably want to introduce the idea
of the matching being more General than
just returning a bull well that's useful
we also may want to
know what is the transformation from
this pattern a set of rules that matches
the blanks to what they actually were so
that would be
like if it's true it needs to
insert um
right so let's
see one thing that I want to do is I
want to take a POS which is a v of U
size and so this is its position in
the thing so what we need to do here is
we need to do
I and the position
is the position in the pattern or the
position in the exper for now it won't
matter but when we get the sequence
patterns it will and I think it's going
to be
the
uh and
so
oh
uh okay so now we have our new
position oh yeah we don't have co-pilot
all right
um all right
whatever
can't be the
default
mhm
um
cool so let me just uh think about
basically what we're what we're building
up to is we're building a map that will
tell us for what
positions uh of the blanks so basically
it's a uh it's a mapping
from okay so I'll just write it in
English
what we're doing now is creating a map
from blank from the positions of the
blanks in
pattern to the
Expressions they match
to okay okay so that sounds pretty good
so let's let uh POS map mute equal
hashmap
new
um and we're going to add that as an
argument to
here
um yeah so we're not doing name patterns
yet which I think is so POS map which is
a is a mutable
pointer to hashmap of V of U
size to
expert
tool
um and
so
so we're going to rename this
function I'm going to duplicate it and
this is just going to be called blank
match and it takes in the POS map should
it though this might get
messy well we're going to see what
happens but
here for all the true
cases for both these we need to do posm
do
insert oh but we need the position
H uh so we could do it here instead of
that whole thing so why don't we do that
I think that's not so
bad so
if
um
but here and we'll need to put true
here and
then we
want
all right so our position map and then
we want to we want to do the same thing
here so we want to copy
this and here is that
correct yes that's fine
but I feel like my formatting is messed
up okay so we're going
to uh
Jesus
expected semicolon bro where are we at
here I'm doing all
this so that's
fine
then this conditional goes for
this but for some reason that's no
good I'll just write it for him
so
I don't see what's
wrong I think
we
it's not formatting and that makes me
very
suspicious
let's see what happens if I should run
it
I love when they do this where they have
like the exact same
thing wait was that the same
thing I don't know what happened that
was weird
okay now we're getting to the good
stuff yep that seems like the right
place to do a
clone same
here I don't care
I guess a lot of these probably should
just take
pointers I'm pass on ownership but I
don't really mean to do
that well I don't I don't
care and I want to print out
the
let's do this
too
uhoh uh actually
that's
[Music]
H that's an interesting one
but I think that's actually
okay okay that's perfect that's what we
expected okay so now I
want
okay so now I want to try a nested case
and I think I'm going to be a little
naughty and I'm going to go to
um
here and I'm going to yoink a little
parser for
us
grab this
code so wait so C ad
Peg put this here and we're going to
kill this code this
code this
code this code that's just going to be
simple what
happened
okay X turn
crate cool so now I should be able to
do oh and then we're going to make a
function and this is going to take an S
of type pointer to string and return to
expert and we say
exper or expert
parer expert s. UNR
okay so now I can just write my S
Expressions how I want so I can say
expert
of f of a of
b
exper f blank and now what we want to
see in the map here first we want to see
a
true and then I want to put a here just
to make sure I feel like we already have
these cases in here somewhere but now I
like my easier way of doing this and we
can run this thing compile compile
compile
right
course
H so that's a
problem we'll need to debug
that
for
e all right so where were we
at we had a bad test case
failing and what we were hoping to see
is
okay so let's think about what happens
I'm going to zoom out I feel like it
wasn't that bad YouTube is let's you
zoom
in
okay so the first thing that happens
when we give it uh what we're working on
right now is f of ab and matching
with f
of okay so we start off and we get these
both lists we say are the lengths equal
they are equal so that's okay we say if
ps0 equals
blank which it
doesn't else we iterate
them then we go to
F we want to
print
position
x
for
[Music]
pattern turn one more
time
yeah so here this should go in there and
then is blank matches must be
retrain how do we do this debugging
thing we should learn this
thing
okay stop
that uh I whatever this is called and
then I want to be here because we
expected or we expected this to
all right I'll put it
there oh but we need to
um disable all our other
guys
what try again what did I do
well where did this come from I just
print out oh
yeah
okay I'm back um so what what are we
doing we're so here so this should be
fine so we should be able
to we want to step into
this right don't we want to step into
that oh this just clones oh I see what
that did okay so now where we at we at
here so
we okay so we're at the list list
arm so now ease is
this
oh
okay so what we need to do is we need to
make this part before
this so okay so so let's uh comment this
out comment one of these out now we can
do
this
and then I think we should should be
able to just take
this put it in
here okay so
now stop this run our
tests cool
so now at position one in our uh thing
we have a uh
whatever
okay that's pretty good so let me just
reenable these all to make sure that we
we're all
good
all
right so now I think I'm going to make a
function called position map replace so
function plus
map
replace
um
traverses the
expression and
whenever it
hits
a uh position
in the tree that has a that exists in
POS
replace and is there a case where you
need to do this depth first I feel like
no
um so what would that be
though
maybe you do have to do a depth first
because if you
have so the full form of this this looks
like
what let's make sure this returns true
that's
good right so this looks like BL like
blank like in our s expression
syntax so we should try to figure that
out this
code so before I write this I just want
to make sure
that I understand what this thing might
look
like
um I guess that's totally
fine
cool
all right so why don't we just do it
um now we're going to add another thing
to my match that is the uh named map and
this is also a mutable hash map M of
exper to
expert and then wherever we see these
conditionals here we also need to say
else if
ps0 equal equal to sim
pattern so what we're doing now and uh
say
un um is the idea that we can have these
forms which instead of inserting into
this position map insert the
name and
um so let P name equal the first
argument of it so this going be
P1 and I think we need to do this I
forgot but I think we need to do that
then we need to
let b
equal
PS2
then we want to
do if is blank match on
E
B then named map.
insert
uh and we're going to put the entire
thing in this we're going to put in
pattern and we're going to store e and
what is e e is nothing
right
and this is not e this is
expert okay so this case is the Sim list
so what we want to do is we want to add
one oh yeah and we want to do this with
name
map we want to put in mute named map
okay that sounds good now we want to add
a case where we just have an f and then
we have
a pattern x blank and we want to see we
also want to print out the POS
map and the aimed
map I'll be cloning all over the place
and not get
flying yeah no this is this is really
stupid we should not be doing that but
whatever oh wait I should do
this
cool
that's actually pretty
[Music]
nice
e
[Music]
that's nice we need to add that one more
place
though which is
here
so what do we need to do
here I think it's the exact same
code
except okay so what is this case this is
uh
cool uh
so I'm going to commit
this see how long we been
go
123 um
I'm going to do a little side TR I'm
going open up my other
code I think it's in match
too so this code has
my get
match
um that sort of
works but it's a total
mess
oh yeah I call it
parse
um
for
all right so what I want to do
now uh
um yeah so we're going to build this
function we're but with two of them so
up
here this one takes the POS map and then
we're going to have the uh or I'm going
to call it
reild and then this one is going to
be which takes the name to
map
that takes two scans though but maybe
that's
[Music]
fine
okay
this code works for a
map so I'm just going to copy it in
because I don't really
care and then what we're going to do
here is we're going to
have and that's going to
both position and
name so this one needs to take a
position
though
and it doesn't need to be
mutable this
trans so that's still the
same
um right this is still the same because
if this was the case this base case
already gets eliminated by here so wait
we need to just change that
to
boss
we can copy this except the only
difference let's do
uh
um
uh oh
yeah Jesus i
e uh push I
oops then we want to do
and it's uh it's just going to
be pass map
rebuild pass map rebuild of new
pa
e in the PA map which never
changes
[Music]
what oh but we're not getting that we're
getting the
pass oh and this should actually
probably be called
pattern
just to help my
mental then what do we do we uh new
e. push new
e then we
return
okay so this is going to
take
H
or is
it I don't think this recurses so that's
fine so this is just going to take an x
uh we'll clut P
for and then a named
map and a pass
map oh and
uh and so doesn't matter which order I
think so we'll just
do
and then we're just going to return
um
and then what we want to do is we want
to add an assertion down
here rebuild all of Pat named map pass
that's perfect
so that rebuilt x equal this and we want
to assert that this rebuilt expression
is the
same oh and this needs to this Pat needs
to be
what needs to be the same as
X
for
oh
um right right
if think I need to do
stter cool all right that's
sweet so now what we've done is
effectively um
we've done pattern matching in its
fullest form with just single blanks no
sequence patterns and we have built the
infrastructure to store what matches
occurred in the process of finding of
finding the match so that we can rebuild
it uh later so that's pretty
cool
[Music]
all right so I might do more later I
feel like that's a good uh good stopping
point